Add extensions security doc (#16389)
docker/docs: desktop/extensions-sdk/guides/security.md

---
title: Security
description: Aspects of the security model of extensions
keywords: Docker, extensions, sdk, security
---

## Extension capabilities

> Extensions can provide various optional parts: a user interface (in html/javascript), a backend part (running as a container), and executables deployed on the host machine.
> Extensions are executed with the same permissions as the Docker Desktop user and extension capabilities include: running any docker commands (including running containers and mounting folders), running extension binaries, and accessing files on your machine.
> The Extensions SDK provides a set of JavaScript APIs to invoke commands or execute these binaries from the extension UI code. Extensions can also provide a backend part that will start a long-lived running container in the background.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Extensions can provide various optional parts: a user interface (in html/javascript), a backend part (running as a container), and executables deployed on the host machine.

Extensions are executed with the same permissions as the Docker Desktop user and extension capabilities include: running any docker commands (including running containers and mounting folders), running extension binaries, and accessing files on your machine.

The Extensions SDK provides a set of JavaScript APIs to invoke commands or execute these binaries from the extension UI code. Extensions can also provide a backend part that will start a long-lived running container in the background.

```
Just adding line breaks to make things more readable

> Learn more at: https://docs.docker.com/desktop/extensions-sdk/architecture/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Learn more in the [architecture section](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/extensions-sdk/architecture/)
```
Make the link clickable

---
title: Security
description: Aspects of the security model of extensions
keywords: Docker, extensions, sdk, security
---

## Extension capabilities

> Extensions can provide various optional parts: a user interface (in html/javascript), a backend part (running as a container), and executables deployed on the host machine.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An extension can have the following optional parts; a user interface in HTML or JavaScript, a backend part that runs as a container, and executables deployed on the host machine.
```

> Extensions are executed with the same permissions as the Docker Desktop user and extension capabilities include: running any docker commands (including running containers and mounting folders), running extension binaries, and accessing files on your machine.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Extensions are executed with the same permissions as the Docker Desktop user. Extension capabilities include running any docker commands (including running containers and mounting folders), running extension binaries, and accessing files on your machine.
```

> The Extensions SDK provides a set of JavaScript APIs to invoke commands or execute these binaries from the extension UI code. Extensions can also provide a backend part that will start a long-lived running container in the background.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Extensions SDK provides a set of JavaScript APIs to invoke commands or execute these binaries from the extension UI code. Extensions can also provide a backend part that starts a long-lived running container in the background.
```

Learn more in the [architecture section](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/extensions-sdk/architecture/)

> Extensions code is loaded in Docker Desktop UI electron app. The extension UI code is subject to some constraints for security reasons, described in the following paragraphs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An extension's code is loaded into the Docker Desktop UI electron app. The extension UI code is subject to some constraints for security reasons, described below.
```

## Sandboxing

Extension UI code is rendered in a sandboxed environment and does not have a node.js environment initialized, nor direct access to the electron APIs.

> The extension UI code cannot perform privileged tasks (such as making changes to the system, or spawning subprocesses) except by using the SDK APIs provided with the extension framework.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The extension UI code cannot perform privileged tasks, such as making changes to the system, or spawning subprocesses, except by using the SDK APIs provided with the extension framework.
```

> It can also perform interactions with Docker Desktop (such as navigating to various places in the Dashboard) only through the extension SDK APIs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It can also perform interactions with Docker Desktop, such as navigating to various places in the Dashboard, only through the extension SDK APIs.
```

## Extension isolation

> Extensions are isolated from each other and extension UI code is running in its own session for each extension. Extensions cannot access other extension’s session data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Extensions are isolated from each other and extension UI code is running in its own session for each extension. Extensions cannot access other extensions’ session data.
```
